---
layout: default
title: Research
permalink: /research
---

Chicken Genotype-Tissue Expression (ChickenGTEx)

The ChickenGTEx project presents the pilot reference of regulatory variants in 28 chicken tissue transcriptomes, including millions of regulatory effects on primary expression (including protein-coding genes, lncRNA and exon) and post-transcriptional modifications (alternative splicing and 3’ untranslated region alternative polyadenylation) through integrating 7,015 RNA-Seq and 2,869 whole-genome sequence data. We explored the tissue-sharing and context-specificity of these regulatory variants, their underlying molecular mechanisms of action, and their utility in interpreting adaptation and genome-wide associations of 108 chicken complex traits. Finally, we illustrated shared and lineage-specific features of gene regulation between chickens and mammals, and demonstrated how the ChickenGTEx resource can further assist with translating genetic findings across species.

Functional Annotation of Bovine Genome (BovineFAANG)
A comprehensive annotation of the genome enables us to better understand the mechanism of gene regulation and the genetic architecture of phenotypic traits. To achieve this, we embarked on the annotation of the bovine genome, utilizing a total of 794 newly generated datasets in combination with 353 publicly available datasets. There datasets were sampled from 41 adult tissues, 8 fetal tissues, and 6 primary cell lines, including epigenomic histone marks, (H3K4me1 (142), H3K4me3 (142), H3K27ac (138), H3K27me3 (132), H3K36me3 (59), H3K9me3 (68), CTCF (138)), DNA methylation (91); ATAC-seq (116), and RNA-Seq (158). The uniform data preprocessing and subsequent modeling using ChromHMM enabled us to annotate 10 distinct chromatin states (designated as E1-E10), which accounts for ~4.6% of the bovine genome, based on four core histone marks (H3K4me1, H3K4me3, H3K27ac, H3K27me3) that were generated in 125 bovine epigenomes simultaneously. As expected, promoter-like states exhibited a higher enrichment around transcription start sites, while enhancers did not. Through a detailed comparison between fetal and the corresponding adult tissues, we were able to detect thousands of development stage-specific regulatory elements, shedding light on potential explanations for variations in gene expression. Similar analyses have been conducted between primary cell lines and bulk tissues. In our ongoing exploration of the contribution of regulatory elements to complex traits, we clustered genome-wide enhancers into 150 distinct modules based on their enhancer activity. Our next phase will focus on investigating the involvement of these enhancer modules in the roles of bovine complex traits. Collectively, our results demonstrated the crucial role of epigenomic information in unraveling the mechanisms of gene regulation, cellular differentiation, tissue development, and the genetics of complex traits in the bovine species.

QUANTPALEOMICS 
The QUANTPALEOMICS project aims to uncover how domestication and intensive breeding have shaped the regulatory landscape of the chicken genome by integrating multi-dimensional functional genomics data with ancient DNA (aDNA). This research will provide groundbreaking insights into the evolutionary impact of domestication and breeding on genomic and endophenotypic changes (such as gene expression, splicing variation, and chromatin interactions), significantly advancing the field of animal genomics. 

Epigenome imputation
The advent of large-scale data, particularly genomics data, has revolutionized animal breeding, significantly increasing rates of genetic gain through genomic prediction. The integration of multi-dimensional epigenomics data, which elucidates the epigenetic regulation of complex agricultural traits in farm animals, promises to catalyze the next major leap in livestock breeding. However, creating a complete epigenome—a comprehensive collection of experimental assays profiling various chromatin attributes such as histone modification, chromatin accessibility, DNA methylation, and chromatin conformation within a single sample (sample × assay matrix) derived from a specific environmental context—presents significant challenges. These challenges stem from constraints on cost, time, and sample material availability, inherent variability in experimental conditions and sample heterogeneity, the context-dependent nature of epigenomic profiles, and species-specific differences in regulatory mechanisms. To address these challenges, this study aims to develop computational methods for measuring epigenomic signals in silico across developmental stages in livestock species through two primary objectives: (1) Develop computational methods based on deep learning algorithms to impute low-quality and/or missing signals of epigenomic assays by leveraging correlations of experimentally profiled datasets represented as a matrix of sample × assay × developmental stage, creating complete epigenomes; (2) Conduct comprehensive validation and benchmarking against existing methods, and develop documentation and tutorials to facilitate user adoption and reuse of the developed software tools. The anticipated outcomes of this project include the development of computational tools capable of cross-context epigenome imputation and the availability of robust animal epigenomes in public repositories. These advancements will enhance the utility of epigenomic data in animal agriculture, leading to improved regulatory element annotation, a better understanding of variant-to-function relationships, and the development of more effective breeding strategies, ultimately contributing to improved animal health and sustainable agricultural practices. The next phase of this project will adapt our methods to enable the imputation (or “deconvolution”) of epigenomic profiles at the single-cell resolution using existing single-cell or bulk-tissue experimental assays in various contexts, such as different sexes, physiological states, and disease conditions.

3D Genome







